So how do you get rid of static routes?
in this example the command show run
will show me the static routes configured on the router and there they are.
A quick way of doing will be to type show run | include ip route
and once again there are around 3 static routes
the command show ip route
shows me that I have 3 static routes in the routing table
so what I could do to remove the static route
is use the word no in front and then copy and paste the static route
and now when I use the command do show ip route
we'll notice I only have 2 static routes in the routing table.
So do sh run | include ip route
I only have 2 static routes now
put no in front and paste the static routing
no and do the 3rd static route.
So now when I use the command do sh run | include ip route
no routes are shown and the command sh ip route
shows me that there are no static routes in the configuration.
Now a quicker way of doing that is to copy the static routes into notepad
so notepad or another text that it can be very useful
I'll press CTRL-H and I’m going to replace IP route with no IP route
and then CTRL-A to select all the text, CTRL-C to copy it
and then I’m going to paste that back into the router.
So I’ve removed all those static routes by using notepad to speed things up
notepad can be very useful
and this just one example of using notepad to speed things up.